# 20230725

## RxJS in Angular Reactive Development

- Pluralsight eğitimine devam ediyorum.

    * [Project Folder](file:///Users/bulent/git-repos/angular-ws/reactive-forms)

    * [app2](file:////Users/bulent/git-repos/personallog/0907202301/app2) folderını 24072023'e move ettim.

- Module 7'ye devam ediyorum
- Node.js kodunu örnek olarak mkdocs içine koyup oradan çalıştırmak için araştırma yaptım.

    - Codemirror denemesi yapacam ama çok umutlu değilim.
    - Bakınırken bunu gördüm. Kayıtta olsun diye not düşüyorum. [LAST:#markdown#electron#react](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/heres-how-i-created-a-markdown-app-with-electron-and-react-1e902f8601ca/)

## Best-of-mkdocs

!!! note

    [Main Page](https://github.com/mkdocs/catalog)

## RxJS Operator Examples

### combineLatest

`combineLatest` is another RxJS operator that allows you to combine multiple observables and get the latest values from all of them whenever any of the source observables emit a new value. It emits an array containing the latest value from each observable.

Here's an example of using `combineLatest` to combine multiple observables:

```javascript

{% include "./combineLatest.js" %}

```

In this example, we have two observables: `observable1$` and `observable2$`. `observable1$` emits the value `'Hello'` immediately, while `observable2$` emits integers `0`, `1`, `2`, `3`, `4` every second, but we take only 5 values.

The `combineLatest` operator combines these two observables into a single observable. Whenever any of the source observables emits a new value, `combineLatest` will emit an array containing the latest value from each observable. In the subscribe block, we destructure this array into `value1` and `value2`, and then log them to the console.

The output of this code will be:

```console
Latest value from observable1: Hello
Latest value from observable2: 0
Latest value from observable1: Hello
Latest value from observable2: 1
Latest value from observable1: Hello
Latest value from observable2: 2
Latest value from observable1: Hello
Latest value from observable2: 3
Latest value from observable1: Hello
Latest value from observable2: 4
combineLatest completed.
```

As you can see, `combineLatest` emits the latest values from both observables whenever any of them emits a new value. It continues emitting as long as both observables are active and emitting new values. When either of the observables completes, the combined observable will also complete.

### forkJoin

`forkJoin` is an RxJS operator that allows you to combine multiple observables and wait for all of them to complete. It waits for all the input observables to emit at least one value, and then it emits an array with the last value from each of the input observables. If any of the input observables errors before emitting a value, `forkJoin` will also immediately emit an error and complete without waiting for other observables.

Here's an example of using `forkJoin` to combine multiple observables:

```javascript
{% include "./forkJoin.js" %}
```

In this example, we have three observables: `observable1$`, `observable2$`, and `observable3$`. Each observable emits a value after a certain delay. We use `forkJoin` to combine these observables into a single observable.

When all three observables complete (emit their values), the `forkJoin` operator will emit an array containing the last emitted value from each observable. In the subscribe block, we destructure this array into `value1`, `value2`, and `value3`, and then log them to the console.

The output of this code will be:

```console
Value from observable1: Hello
Value from observable2: RxJS
Value from observable3: 0
All observables completed.
```

Remember that `forkJoin` waits for all observables to complete, so it's essential to ensure that all of them eventually emit a value or complete to avoid potential memory leaks. If any observable errors before emitting a value, the `forkJoin` will also emit an error and complete immediately.

### withLastFrom

```javascript

{% include "./withLatestFrom.js" %}

```

##  CodeMirror Example

```html title='Simple Node.js code'

{% include "./codemirror-example1.html" %}

```
