# 20230808 - Modern JavaScript from the Beginning

- Chapter 3 ile devam ediyoruz. Chapter 2'yi bitirdim.
- [prisma.io](https://www.prisma.io) "Next-generation Node.js and TypeScript ORM" and next.js commerce 2.0 gördüm.
- Buna bakılabilir [nextjs-prisma-postgres](https://vercel.com/guides/nextjs-prisma-postgres)

## Chapter 3 Arrays and Objects

### [Creating Arrays](file:///Users/bulent/git-repos/typescript-ws/mjfb-brad-traversy/02-arrays-and-objects/01-array-basics)

###  Object Literals

In JavaScript, an "object literal" refers to a way of creating objects using a concise and straightforward notation directly within your code. It allows you to define the properties and methods of an object in a single expression, making it a convenient way to create objects without using constructor functions or classes. Object literals are a fundamental concept in JavaScript and are often used for various purposes, including defining configuration settings, data structures, and more.

Here's an example of creating an object literal:

```javascript
const person = {
  firstName: "John",
  lastName: "Doe",
  age: 30,
  greet: function() {
    console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.firstName} ${this.lastName}.`);
  }
};
```

In this example, `person` is an object literal that has properties (`firstName`, `lastName`, `age`) and a method (`greet`). The properties are defined with their names and values, while the method is defined as a function.

Key points about object literals in JavaScript:

1. **Braces and Key-Value Pairs**: Object literals are defined using curly braces `{}`. Inside the braces, you provide key-value pairs where the keys are strings (property names) and the values can be of any data type (other objects, functions, primitives, etc.).

2. **Methods**: You can define methods (functions) directly within an object literal, just like any other property.

3. **Accessing Properties and Methods**: You can access object properties and methods using dot notation (`objectName.propertyName`), e.g., `person.firstName` or `person.greet()`.

4. **`this` Keyword**: Within methods defined within an object literal, the `this` keyword refers to the object itself.

Object literals provide a simple and concise way to define objects, but they may not be suitable for more complex object hierarchies or for creating multiple instances with shared functionality. In such cases, constructor functions or classes might be more appropriate.

```javascript
// Creating an object
const person = {
  name: 'John Doe',
  age: 30,
  isAdmin: true,
  address: {
    street: '123 Main st',
    city: 'Boston',
    state: 'MA',
  },
  hobbies: ['music', 'sports'],
};

// Accessing object properties
x = person.name; // Dot notation
x = person['age']; // Bracket notation
x = person.address.state;
x = person.hobbies[0];
```
